T: Good morning guys, we’re going to start
S: (its too cold. Yeah it was cold outside)
T: Um, we’re gonna start our fungi unit today, um, I hadn’t quite finished all of your exams, prepping your exams on Friday, but I will be done pretty soon. I’m hoping to get done by the end of this week.
T: um, so let me show you the fungi unit, and so I have one warm-up question for you and its “where have you seen fungi?” jot down a couple of ideas.
T: Ok, so where’s places where you might have seen fungi?
S: In my backyard
T: Great, in your backyard where though?
S: Um, towards the mossy area(?) it’s hard to explain.
T: Towards like the corner, or is it on…
S: A bunch of mushrooms
T: Oh, a bunch of mushrooms, in the hay.
…
S: Something weird on its (unintelligible), its like a disease, that’s what the doctors say.
T: Oh, what’d it look like?
S: It was weird looking (unintelligible)
T: Oh ok, so you didn’t get to see what it looked like but you know it was growing on its butt?
T: (calls on student)
S: Like mushrooms on the trees in the woods.
T: Ok, so in the natural environment?
S: Those weird things that stick out of the sides of trees.
T: Ok, so on trees.
S: Um, on decrepit logs
T: What do you mean (?)
S: Like just rotted, like, like falling apart (unintelligible) the fungi (unintelligible)
S: (unintelligible)
T: Ok, any other places? Yeah, Diana?
S: In the grass in my front yard.
T: In the back of your car?
S: No, no. In the grass in my front yard.
T: Oh, the grass, ok great.
T: So we’ve seen fungi, um, sometime in our life, uh, whether it’s on food or in nature like on trees or whatnot, we’re gonna be looking at more examples today too, so we have activity 42 for you. So I want you to show me that’s one of the things as you’re going around, um, oh actually as it- as you’re working at your lab station. And at your lab station what you’ll find are some colored pictures of different types of fungi, so there are twelve different types that you can look through. Um, a good idea is to have all the pictures spread out at your lab station so you can look at all of them together. And there are different bins with different types of things in them. So for instance, this station here has um, some fruit, that has uh, fungi growing on them. So you’ll make some observations uh about some of the things you see here. Remember we’re practicing our observations like we did at the beginning of the day. So uh, what kinds of things can you observe when you’re looking at these?
S: Uh, that they’re really old and not healthy.
T: Yeah, so you’re making observations like that, some visual observations that maybe make- it also you can maybe make some guesses about what you think is happening inside some of these things too. So this station here has, um, fruit with mold on it. Um, I’ve got another station with mushrooms on it. Um, another one with petri dishes with mushrooms on them. And I think, um, some fungi growing as well. So, you can take a look- oh and bread, bread growing, uh, mold growing on bread. So when you’re uh, when you’re looking at the different bins here you’re looking at some of the different type of fungi um, and when you’re done, um, I’m going to give every group maybe about six or seven minutes. I’d like the team managers up at the front to kinda keep an eye on the clock, so at about every six or seven minutes I’d like you to take your bin and pass it to the next station, we’ll go in this order.
…
S: oh, oh
S: I can smell the pepper
S: That is, that is grody 
S: So is this
S: Oh god, that’s strawberries
S: Ew
S: Let’s see the pictures
S: Ok, dude this is squishy
S: It is?
S: Whoa
S: Ew, it looks like its like growing little- Oh I forgot my pencil at my desk
S: Doesn’t all fungus have to grow on stuff?
S: (unintelligible)
S: Yes you have, it’s like everywhere in the forest
S: Oh yeah
S: So where can you find fungi, growing on stuff?
S: Bread, trees
S: Basically growing on stuff
S: Wait what about that nacho thing?
S: Other things, growing on other things, like berries, trees
S: Yeah, well I had- food
T: Which part are you working on?
S: We’re working on (unintelligible)
T: Ok, so you have a good list here, where are you getting this list from?
S: From the (unintelligible)
T: Ah, so your journal is a helpful tool, huh? Ok, so can you maybe describe what you guys know, some examples (?), like they, they made food, what do you mean by that, oh they make food, so you’re saying that-
S: No we need food, we need, in our (Unintelligible)
T: Oh they need food, so they don’t make their your own. How do you know? Do you know that for sure?
S: No, it’s something they do. Photosynthesis.
T: What are some examples? How do you know they make their own food? What are you basing it off of?
S: Because, well they, normally they always have something- they’re always arguing, they always pretend they’re not growing out of the ground (unintelligible)
T: Ok, so they- yeah, what’d you say?
S: It needs a host so it becomes a host.
T: Um, so, how is it getting the nutrients from it. We know that plants make their own food. We eat food, we eat it with our mouth, how are they eating their food?
S: I don’t know, they eat bacteria.
S: Decomposes.
T: What do you mean by that?
S: Like, like, like it disappears after a while and the bacteria’s just left.
T: Oh, ok, so that’s like when you have this piece of bread, like we have this bread here with a lot of mold on it, um-
S: (Unintelligible) it will be just fungi, there won’t be any bread.
S: If there’s no more bread we won’t have (unintelligible)
T: What about some of the other ones, how do they adapt?
S: Well I think-
S: You see it spread, you see it spread, it like spreads around the bread.
S: They’re all different hosts and they have to adapt to the different host.	
T: Ok, can you give me an example that you might have seen, or?
S: well, the difference between some of the mushrooms, is like, I think that’s the fungi on this one, and that’s way different between- from say this example, and I’m assuming this is maybe in a wetter climate.
T: So these adaptations are for what reason?
S: Uh, to live, like, to survive.
T: To gain some of the nutrients it might need?
S: Yeah.
T: Um, what about, how do they reproduce?
S: I think it’s binary fission.
T: Just like what we talked about with uh (unintelligible), so that might be something that might be something that’s listed where how are fungi different from plants, you know, like, they reproduce kind of like plants reproduce.
S: (unintelligible)
T: Plants reproduce by binary fission
S: No, No. They did the, Pollen. The pollen spreading. Pollination. 
T: So are we moving on to the next part where it’s basic things they need to survive, just so you guys are already thinking about that list and that might be a good idea, you can use that to-
…
S: We need to make sure how they reproduce.
S: How do they reproduce?
S: I’m pretty sure it’s binary fission, because remember when we did all that bacteria stuff.
S: Yeah, but it’s different from that bacteria stuff.
…
S: It eats dead organisms
S: But, but a mushroom’s only (unintelligible)
S: Yes, but it eats dead- it eats the dead organisms
S: Not always
S: He’s confusing me 
S: (unintelligible)
S: There’s also food-
S: The yeast is alive, like yogurt.
S: The yeast is alive until it got eaten.
T: Yogurt, what do you mean?
S: Like, because it’s alive, but not alive alive.
T: Oh, ok. So what were you guys talking about before that?
S: Um, he he kept saying that mushrooms are living organisms and like they don’t feed on dead organisms, or something like that.
S: That would make fungus a cannibal. 
T: It would make them a cannibal?
S: Well, I thought mushrooms and fungus are not dead organisms usually.
T: Yeah, I mean like, what are some examples that you’ve seen them growing on?
S: Decaying wood
T: On decaying wood. Anywhere else?
S: Uh, on old food. Like, wet, wet, old clammy places. Like, one time I took a bunch of sand and, uh, dirt and water and everything and then put it in an airtight container, and in like two days mold started to grow.
T: Yeah, how did it get there?
S: I think it’s like because of the climate, and I think it’s like, I think it’s, being like carried, like carried along, and then it like, kinda like emerges, like grows
T: Would you say like, well, but how come it wasn’t growing when you first obtained it?
S: Because it’s not, uh, it’s maybe because they didn’t like that habitat so they stay hidden.
T: So what are some things that maybe all, all fungi need in order to like emerge?
S: Like wetness
T: Wet stuff, ok
S: And it’s usually dark, they’re usually in dark places.
T: Where did you keep them, when you-?
S: Uh, I kept them on my windowsill, but there’s like a bunch of trees blocking the windowsill so not a lot of light comes through
T: Ok
S: Some like dark areas and cold areas similar to (unintelligible)
S: Like, because, in the forest there’s usually not much light and uh, I went with my family where, for edible mushrooms and they like all grow in the dark shadows.
T: Why would they grow in those kinds of areas, you think?
S: It’s their natural habitat?
S: There’s a lot of (unintelligible) 
T: when you think about plants, plants grow in certain areas, um, to survive, and get sunlight and whatnot. Um, why would fungi grow in like the dark woods are they getting anything from it?
S: Wetness. Water.
S: Food that they need to survive.
T: Um, sure. When you- You guys talked about a lot of good stuff. As you’re, um, going back through this maybe you can add some of those ideas you just talked about.
…
S: Ew
T: Pull them out
S: They’re still wet
T: You can even kinda touch them
S: It’s soggy. Yeah see- like wetness
S: I like it, put water
T: How is this, uh, how is this like the, the fruit that you just saw?
S: Well it’s like it looks really old and it’s like, it’s wet. So I think it does have to have a wet climate because this is wet and like the fruit was wet, and I added water to that, my little, uh, stuff that I made, so that’s probably why-
T: So you’re saying that if I used like dry bread it wouldn’t at all, you wouldn’t see any mold?
S: No, it’s not that- just not as much
S: Not as fast
S: Yeah, not as fast
S: Because it would gain water eventually from (unintelligible)
S: No, it would gain water from the air
T: Um, so it takes time for mold to grow. 
S: [nodding]
T: Um, why? Why does it take so much time?
S: Because it still has, it probably still has to, uh, um, break out the egg or reproduce or something like that.
T: Reproduce. Ok. In what way though, like, what do you mean? So when you’re looking at this here you’re saying that as it gets bigger and bigger and bigger you’re saying that it’s reproducing or that it’s growing?
S: It could be growing or reproducing.
T: What do you guys think?
S: I think it’s growing
T: You think it’s growing. You’re saying reproducing, so when you’re looking at all these different types of fungi too, are they all, like, reproducing in the same way you think?
S: Kind of, because like some of the mushrooms are connected, in a way.
T: Oh, they’re all connected? Do you see that in any of the other kind of fungi here? What about this one here? Are they all like, maybe connected at some point? Or is that like one, like, one mushroom here and just (unintelligible)?
S: Like trees that can, like, grow more of them because they’re on the same tree.	
T: Well, look at, look through some more of these pictures here, any other similarities, like how there’s tons of mushroom here, are there some patterns that you see as well?
S: Like here the bread is kind of dry and there’s not that much mold visible.
T: Oh, that’s a good, that’s a good observation.
…
T: Um, let’s hear some ideas that you have right now. What are some things that you notice that maybe are similar or different?
T: Joe?
S: Um, they have, well they have, some fungus are attached to trees and we don’t.
T: Ok, great. They grow on different things. So I heard- what did you say?
S: I said that, uh, fungus attaches to different things like trees and we don’t.
T: Does anyone want to add to that idea or shoot off with a new idea?
S: Uh, well, they need a host to grow on.
T: Ok, I’ll add that on here.
S: And they need a brain.
